Friends here we're implementing a simple shell script to execute
different commands on different servers with the different users and different passwords.
Say suppose I, how these two remote servers see already we implemented
a shell script to execute
same commands on different servers with the same username and password.
So if we go with our previous shell script,
so here we are reading server names,
only server names from this file.
And on the Anita and every server,
you are repeating this loop.
So you are repeating, you are executing these three commands on each and every server.
So same commands you are executing on multiple servers with same username and password.
That's why we are directly providing our password name and a username here.
Now my requirement is on server one,
on remote server one,
I know username as automation and its password, suppose,
but I want to execute on that first server,
did command and semaphore second user.
I don't how automation user,
but I know one of the user called Tomcat and I know the password for that.
But here I want to explore commanders, who am I?
Now your comments are different.
User names or different.
Your passwords are different.
Now, in this type of situation,
how you can implement a shell script, right?
See first, follow the order.
I mean in each and every line just right for server name,
then username, then password,
then the command which unity execute.
N.
Second line again for server name,
username, password, than the command which you want to execute on second server.
Once if you follow this order,
just take this information into your file.
Let me save this information into a file called Star Wars info 2.txt.
I'm storing into this file.
Now let me save it.
See if you go with your previous shell script using for loop,
you are able to execute your same commands on multiple servers.
But he had not same commands,
even not same user, not same password.
Then how you can do it?
Let me do it. I am writing simply different users passwords.
Dot TXT, sorry, dot SH.
So before that, let me save it.
So you What is our filename in which we stored the content servers in file.txt.
Suppose if I use four loops to read the content from this file, how it will work.
First, observe that for each server info in cat,
filename, do and done.
C Here I am displaying the we were each server in food.
First, observe the output. Now let me provide
the execution permission for this. Now I'm running.
See there isn't.
Even for loop is able to read the content which is there in your file.
But c in this file,
you have a content, right?
Let me open that file as well.
But it is not reading entire line at a time.
It is reading this as one value, second value,
the third value, fourth value,
then fifth, sixth, seventh, 8.
That's why are getting eight lines.
So even if your for loop is able to read this entire line as one field,
then you will get faster for lens in one line,
but you're not getting that.
That's why whenever, if this type of
information you are a for loop is not suitable for your requirement.
Then how you can implement your code using while loop.
Let me show you that first.
As of now we don't know about while loop, but no problem,
just observe and how we are implementing.
Let me remove this. So before removing,
let me copy the file name.
So if you go with either for loop or a while loop or until our select loop do undone and
common in while loop at the end, at the done,
just to provide a less than symbol then server,
I mean the file in which you,
how your information then before do just write while read.
Here you can write any variable, each server info.
Now see the result, how it is executing compared to your for loop.
Very, very useful whenever you have this type of situation.
Now let me run our shell script c.
You are able to read the entire line at a time by using your while loop.
Eats our info into this variable,
you are getting the entire line at a time.
Right?
That is one thing. And second thing is,
if you already know how many fields are there in
each and every line directly here itself we can provide for fields.
So as of now you have four fields in each and every line, right?
That's why in shut off each summer info,
if I take only one variable here into this variable,
you are entire land will store line by line.
You will get into this variable.
But already we know in each and every line we have four fields that way.
See I'm modifying our while loop in this way.
Instead of each server info.
Innumerable anyhow, for fields,
first, if we list server name,
second field is username,
password for the file's command.
Now see that I am printing server name only.
Dollar server. Now see how it is working.
First, let me show you your core and see the content of your file.
Now run your shell script C.
That is, we are getting only server name.
We have four fields in your file.
An inner while loop,
while read is the syntax.
And here you can take any four variables so
that respect to leave foster freely will store into the second field,
will store into the star field.
I mean thoughtful means your password is stored into this variable.
You are command will store into this variable.
So you are while we'll read this entire line first-time for first iteration.
And here you have four fields.
That's why you were four fields will assigned to these four variables respectively.
That's it.
Now I can implement our shell script c from our previous course.
We know how to execute a command on your remote server.
Now, let me execute that.
Very simple.
First, let me copy that command from our previous session.
Simply as such, path hyphen e, f.
But here our password is there in a variable called pass.
That's why I'm taking hyphen p Then subsidy or variable.
Say this is a password value.
Now I'm shooting that SSH hyphen Wall Street who host a key checking.
Now automation usury is not a fixed
one while working with your first silver different user.
Secondly, it's our different user,
but automatically you are user name will come into this variable.
That's why I'm shooting user.
And sorrow results anyway,
salaries different and somebody is there in this variable.
That's it.
Now command, you are command is there in cmd?
Just I use different variable,
that's it. So that's a.
Now let me run this and see the result, how it is working.
So sorrows info, our shell script.
Now I am running that.
See that? Oh, what happened?
779. Yeah, let me check it.
What is the code? Ssh boss,
I found me password host,
KEY tricking new dollar user.
Yeah, I have given two times the dollar.
That is the problem. Let me remove $1.
For dollar. Dollar means PAD right?
Now you are getting output date command output
C. If you see the content of your first line,
command is date, and you are getting output for only for server but seconds,
however, information is knotting,
scooting in your while loop.
This is generally your SSH will expect input from stdin,
but I want to avoid that.
So this is only knew a while loop.
So that's why you can add an option called hyphen Yan means don't expert input from
STD in if you go with the man command of SSH somewhere you how hyphen Yana option.
So you can use Ionian or the at the end of your command.
You can also provide slash DO NL,
hyphen, redirects SUDAAN from Dell null.
I mean, be clear guys,
this is very, very important.
Let me say, sorry.
You can write your iPhone yen or at the end simply you can write down null.
But don't write those two.
I mean highfalutin and donor.
As anyone of that iPhone yen or at the end Less Than donor, you can write it.
But I have an h1 is the best option.
So I haven't any means don't expect any input from STD synthetic.
Now let me save it and run your shell script consider is.
Now you are getting output for your two servers for
first-year server command is date for second server.
Command is Who am I that we are getting that.
See if you need a clarity,
then you can add some echo.
Now, before executing an SSH,
I am writing here a code
executing commands on server
with user as let me read the username and password.
Just for your understanding, I am displaying this content,
that's it so that you can understand and we'd server,
what is the username on? What is the password?
It is taking?
C, executing data on the server with user as automation and password has this one
executing Who am I a on the server with user as Tomcat and password, right?
Not only one command,
you can execute multiple commands also.
Right? See, suppose, let me modify our script.
I mean our sorrows information first.
Suppose unforced Our along with the date command.
Suppose I want to exclude one more command called uptime.
Then on second server,
I will exclude uptime and let's say simply date command, uptime and data.
Now you have to modify your while loop.
Now you have five fields, right?
Now five fields.
Then let's say command one and command to.
Automatically we're command one will store into
command one variable and come into variable.
Then here command one.
So in short writing simply CMD,
right, command one here.
And same logic you have to repeat for second command as well.
So in case you've heard some N number of commands here,
you can also implement a loop instead of writing these two lines two times.
We'll see that.
So this is just for your understanding why we need a while loop in your real time.
Even though if we have for loop,
simply come in to see the result.
And one more thing after completion of your work with first server,
just for differentiation purpose I am writing.
Now let me save it and run your code.
C.
You are getting the content on your first server.
You are executing date command first,
then uptime command second,
second server you're exuding first to who am I? Where is the command?
Yeah, Who am I?
And date command, that's it.
So there is, this is the way how we can execute multiple commands on, I mean,
different commands on different servers with the different users and password.
Very, very important for your realtime.
Okay. Thank you.